---
title: 10.b Narrative Devices Are Helpful for Living
id: 202508291010
branch: 10.b
tags:
  - _status/Leafing
  - _type/Atom
dg-publish: true
date modified: Friday, August 29th 2025, 10:46:34 am
---

> [!nav]
> up:: [[10. I want to harness dopamine more effectively]]
>
> ---
> 202508291010 | August 29, 2025
>
> #_form/5_☀︎sublimation
>
> #on/story | #on/living

---

# 10.b Narrative Devices Are Helpful for Living

We need stories. The stories that we tell ourselves are some of the most important things that we invent, and leveraging our natural tendency to generate effect from cause, A.K.A a story, goes a long way.

I know that for me, if I don't use the right framing device, things fall apart. I don't know if I'm especially sensitive to it or if everyone else feels that way. I get in my head about how things are supposed to be, how to make sense of all the chaotic things around me, how I fit in to and interact with the people in my life; stories help me cope with those things.

In those cases I'm just talking about, like, stringing a little thread and holding two similar ideas or feelings or situations in my field of view, and seeing what kinds or questions arise.

I feel bad, but I feel better if I play music with people. What about that works so much?

[[10.b2 Working with kids is demanding]], but it makes me less depressed when I do it, what does that say about my capacity?

If I could go anywhere in the world for a day, where would I go? what is my “dream job”?

[[10.b1 Narratives are a series of unanswered questions]] and most people tell me that life is full of those.

## Crossings
