---
cssClasses:
title: Different Thoughts on Compassion
summary:
aliases: [Different Thoughts on Compassion, " "]
id: 20230815171328
tags:
  - _type/Note
  - _status/Budding
linter-yaml-title-alias: Different Thoughts on Compassion
date modified: Tuesday, August 15th 2023, 5:52:43 pm
---

> up:: [[12.a Empathy mechanisms]]
>
> ---
> 20230815171328 | August 15, 2023
> #_form/5_☀︎sublimation
> 
> #on/compassion

---

# Different Thoughts on Compassion

I'm reading #people/Thich_Nhat_Hanh's book [[You Are Here (Hanh2009)]] and it's truly great to read the words of a modern visionary; even moreso realizing that this book was published for the first time in the 21st century.

In particular, something that strikes me is reading him talk about compassion.

> [!quote] via *You Are Here* p. 10
>  for me, the kingdom of God is where a mindfulness exists, and it is a kingdom where there is compassion. The kingdom of God, but pure land, it's not a place where there is no suffering. Many people aspire to go to a place where pain and suffering do not exist, a place where there is only happiness. This is a rather dangerous idea, for compassion is not possible with her pain and suffering. It is only when we enter into contact with suffering that understanding and compassion can be born. **Without suffering, we do not have the opportunity to cultivate compassion and understanding; and, without understanding, there could be no true love.**

This reminds me of a passage from #people/Milan_Kundera's [[The Unbearable Lightness of (Being Kundera1984)]] in which he talks about the "weight" of compassion, and how the word has some nuanced uses.

> [!quote] via *The Unbearable Lightness of Being* p. 11
> All languages that derive from Latin form the word compassion by combining the prefix meaning with *(com-)* and the root meaning suffering (Late Latin, *passio*). In other languages--Czech, Polish, German, and Swedish for instance-- this word is translated by a noun formed of an equivalent prefix combined with a word that means feeling (Czech, *sou-cit*; Polish, *wspol-czucie*; German, *Mit-gefuhl*; Swedish, *med-kansia*).
> …
> … the word compassion generally inspires suspicion; it designates what is considered an inferior, second-rate sentiment that has little to do with love. **To love someone out of compassion means not to really love**.

He goes on to talk about how different etymological roots have a different nuance;

> [!quote] p. 11
> The secret strength of its etymology floods the word with another light and gies it a broader meaning; to have compassion (co-feeling) means not only to be able to live with the other's misfortune but also to feel with him any emotion--joy, anxiety, happiness, pain. This kind of compassion (in the sense of souc/r, *wspofczucie, Mitgefuhl, medkansia*) therefore signifies the maximal capacity of affective imagination, the art of emotional telepathy. **In the hierarchy of sentiments, then, it is supreme.**

It's interesting how there is some… I don't know, through-line between what they're talking about, even though they seem on a surface level to be oppositional. They're trying to get at the same thing, but from different directions.
