---
title: Unconditional Positive Regard
aliases:
id: 20220501223450
branch: 2.a
tags:
  - _status/Pruning
  - _type/Note
summary:
  - Unconditional positive regard is acceptance and support of a person regardless of what they say or do. Originated in client-centered therapy.
cssclasses:
date created: Sunday, May 1st 2022, 10:34:50 pm
date modified: Wednesday, August 13th 2025, 5:27:26 pm
dg-publish: true
---

> [!nav]
> up:: [[2. People are a process]]
>
> ---
> 20220501223450 | May 1, 2022
> #_form/1_⚭replication

---

# 2.a Unconditional Positive Regard

#folks/Cynthia_Cukiernik has used this term a lot since I've known her. Finally decided to look it up and add it to the garden. A term used by #people/Carl_Rogers in his writing and theory

> [!wiki] via [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unconditional%20positive%20regard)
 > **unconditional positive regard**, a concept initially developed by Stanley Standal in 1954, later expanded and popularized by the humanistic psychologist Carl Rogers in 1956, is the basic acceptance and support of a person regardless of what the person says or does, especially in the context of client-centred therapy. Its founder, Carl Rogers, writes:
>
 > > For me it expresses the primary theme of my whole professional life, as that theme has been clarified through experience, interaction with others, and research. This theme has been utilized and found effective in many different areas until the broad label 'a person-centred approach' seems the most descriptive.
 > >
 > > The central hypothesis of this approach can be briefly stated. It is that the individual has within him or her self vast resources for self-understanding, for altering her or his self-concept, attitudes, and self-directed behaviour—and that these resources can be tapped if only a definable climate of facilitative psychological attitudes can be provided.
> …
> Unconditional positive regard can be facilitated by keeping in mind Rogers' belief that all people have the internal resources required for personal growth. Rogers' theory encouraged other psychologists to suspend judgement and to listen to a person with an attitude that the client has within himself/herself the ability to change, without actually changing who he/she is.

An example of how [[2. People are a process]].

## Crossings

[[Psychology]]
