---
title: 3.a1 Technology Doesn't Care About Us
id: 202508231655
branch: 3.a1
tags:
  - _status/Leafing
  - _type/Note
date modified: Saturday, August 23rd 2025, 11:51:31 pm
dg-publish: true
---

> [!nav]
> up:: [[3.a The narwhal bacons at midnight]]
>
> ---
> 202508231655 | August 23, 2025
>
> #_form/5_☀︎sublimation
>
> #on/technology | #on/poetry 

---

# 3.a1 Technology Doesn't Care About Us

"Technology was supposed to make our lives better," is a phrase that I feel like I've heard my whole life, always with a sigh and rueful shake of the head. As if the worst consequence of that ideal failing is disappointment.

Yes, we know that "technology is a tool" and that "guns don't kill people," but I don't think that we fully internalize, or maybe metabolize, that idea.

What i mean is that "technology" has an inherently apathetic approach of the ones using it. It doesn't care, because all technologies do is *amplify* what's already there. First and foremost it is a multiplier; it does not simply add, but rather it takes what is existing and makes it louder, better, more efficient, more able to trigger and release dopamine for us.

Technology does not care about us. And the people who purport to use technology to make our lives better *also* do not care about us; modern day (and even some older) technologists often have an inherently hostile attitude towards their own users/customers/clients/whoever will give them money.

Not to say that they are seeking the death and enslavement of those who are part of the outgroup (but I mean…) but that any form of mass produced technology is driven by a profit motive (and [[4.b1b1 I'm suspicious of profit motive]]), which inherently degrades the relationship without proper care.

## Crossings

- X:: [[1.b1a1 Phone bad, grass good]]
