---
title: "I'm Suspicious of Profit Motive"
id: 202508261626
branch: 4.1b1b1
tags:
  - _status/Budding
  - _type/Atom
dg-publish: true
date modified: Tuesday, August 26th 2025, 5:23:42 pm
---

> [!nav]
> up:: [[4.b1b PKM cannot save you]]
>
> ---
> 202508261626 | August 26, 2025
>
> #_form/3_❖deflagration
>
> #on/exploitation | #on/poverty

---

# 4.b1b1 I'm Suspicious of Profit Motive

Profit motives make the world go 'round (almost literally…) and we are all subject to enforcing, and reinforcing them. That doesn't mean that it doesn't raise my hackles when I spot one, though.

I have a strong distaste for advertisements for that reason. I hate feeling like people I don't know *want* something from me. I don't mind giving things away or spending my resources, but there's just something a little icky to me about it in a way I can't explain. It's like I have to decide if I'm going to guard myself against what they're planning for me, maybe. In a small way, it reminds me of what I hear women say about strange men; the feeling of being observed, sized up, evaluated for someone else's gain.

You don't mix business with pleasure; you don't loan a family member money you aren't willing to never again see; these are truths that are real, and that exist and have been learned the hard way. Because to involve profit motives into relationships makes people uncomfortable, and again, are *actively hostile* to a sense of trust, commitment, and security.
## Crossings

- X:: [[3.a1 Technology doesn't care about us]]
- X:: [[4.b1b PKM cannot save you]]
- X:: [[6.c1 Social media search is terrible]]
